# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

  In the console Ruby file.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

  In the Property class file.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

  The lines that call the methods we defined such as 'save', 'update', 'delete', 'find', 'find_by_address'.

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

  Because the id is liable to change while stored in the SQL database, and because it would be a big, unnecessary pain for developers.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

  In the Property class in the constructor, by taking in the id from the SQL hash (if it exists).

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

  Because when an object is first instantiated it is not assigned an id, until it enters the database.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

  Because some methods affect specific objects (instance methods), whereas some methods affect all the objects in the class (e.g. if all of them need to be deleted from the database).

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

  An array of hashes. In the save method, we access the id by accessing the first value in the array with [0], and then use the key ['id'] to access the id value. This is assigned to @id.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

  So that code can be reused easily, and to protect against SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

  "id" and "address" values.

Q11. What are their return values?

  The full hash/property object with values that match the desired id or address.
